## Methods


[s41524_021_00552_2_meth_01] , allowing for
much faster screening of materials.
Many studies have been published lately, differing by the
feature generation approaches or the underlying ML models.
Concerning crystalline solids, the majority of methods presented
up to now can mainly be divided into three categories. The ﬁrst
one, called “ad hoc” models here, relies on a case per case study,
targeted on a speciﬁc group of materials and a speciﬁc property.
Typically, hand-crafted descriptors are tailored in order to suit
the physics of the underlying property and are the major point
of attention, while common simple-to-use ML models are
chosen. Some examples include the identiﬁcation of Heusler
compounds of type AB2C5, force ﬁeld ﬁtting by using many-body
symmetry functions6, the prediction of the magnetic moment for
lanthanide-transition metal alloys7, or formation energies by the
sine-coulomb-matrix8. This type of method is popular because it
is simpler to construct case-by-case descriptors, motivated by
intuition, than general all-round features. Furthermore, by
focusing on a speciﬁc problem, good accuracy is often achieved.
For instance, performance is increased when learning on a
particular structure, which is therefore inherently built into
the model.
The second category, which appeared more recently, gathers
more general models that are applicable to various materials and
properties based on graph networks. They transform the raw
crystal input into a graph and process it through a series of
convolutional layers, inspired by deep learning as used in
the image-recognition ﬁeld9. Examples of such graph models
are the crystal graph convolutional neural network (CGCNN)10 or
the materials graph network (MEGNet)11.
Graph models are very convenient as they can be used for any
material property. However, their accuracy crucially depends on
the quantity of the available data. Since the problems that would
beneﬁt the most from ML are the ones that are computationally
demanding with conventional quantum methods, they are
precisely those for which less data is available. For instance,
the band gap has been computed within GW for 80 crystals12, the
lattice thermal conductivity for 101 compounds13, and the
vibrational properties for 1245 materials14. It is therefore
important to develop techniques that can deal efﬁciently with
limited datasets. This has


